# OOP Part 1: Classes & Instances


## Overview

This reading explores the concepts of classes and instances in Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) as they apply to JavaScript.


## Key Concepts


### Classes as Blueprints

- Classes are templates used to create objects (instances).

- Similar to how a house blueprint is used to build houses.

- In JavaScript, classes are declared using the `class` keyword.



### Creating Instances

- Instances are individual objects created from a class.

- Use the `new` keyword to create an instance from a class.



### Methods and Properties

- Classes can define methods (functions within the class) and properties (variables within the class).

- Example: A `Pizza` class with a method to add toppings and a property to hold the list of toppings.



### The `constructor` Method

- A special method for setting up new objects.

- It's executed when a new instance is created.

- Useful for initializing object properties.



### Working with Classes and Instances

- Each instance has its own set of properties and methods.

- Methods defined in a class can be used by all instances of that class.



### Comparison to Regular JavaScript Objects

- Classes provide a more structured way to create objects that share similar properties and methods.

- Helps in keeping the code DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself).



### JavaScript's Approach to OOP

- JavaScript supports both prototype-based and class-based OOP.

- Classes in JavaScript are syntactic sugar over prototypes.



## Conclusion

- Understanding classes and instances is crucial in OOP to create organized and modular code.

- JavaScript's flexible approach to OOP allows for a variety of patterns in designing and structuring code.

